The Tomb of the ANDRONICI appearing; the Tribunes and Senators aloft.
Enter, below, from one side, SATURNINUS and his Followers; and, from the other side, BASSIANUS and his Followers; with drum and colours
Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
Plead my successive title with your swords: I am his first-born son, that was the last
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome; Then let my father's honours live in me,
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
Romans, friends, followers, favorers of my right,
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son, Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Keep then this passage to the Capitol
And suffer not dishonour to approach
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
To justice, continence and nobility; But let desert in pure election shine,
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS, aloft, with the crown Princes, that strive by factions and by friends Ambitiously for rule and empery, Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
A special party, have, by common voice,
In election for the 
Roman empery,
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
For many good and great deserts to Rome:
A nobler man, a braver warrior, Lives not this day within the city walls:
He by the senate is accit'd home
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths;
That, 
with his sons, 
a terror to our foes,
Hath yoked a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
Ten years are spent since first he undertook This cause of Rome and chastised with arms
Our enemies' pride: five times he hath return'd
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
In coffins from the field;
And now at last, laden with horror's spoils,
Returns the good Andronicus to Rome, Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
Let us entreat, by honour 
of his name,
Whom worthily you would have now succeed.
And in the 
Capitol and senate's right,
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
That you withdraw you and 
abate your strength;
Dismiss your followers and, as suitors should,
Plead your deserts 
in peace and humbleness.
Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
I thank you all and here dismiss you all, And to the love and favor of my country
Commit myself, my person and the cause.
Exeunt the followers of SATURNINUS Rome, be as just and gracious unto me As I am confident and kind to thee. Open the gates, and let me in.
Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor. Flourish. SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol
Enter a Captain
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
And brought to yoke, 
the enemies 
of Rome.
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and MUTIUS; After them, two
Men bearing a coffin covered with black; then LUCIUS and QUINTUS.
After them, TITUS ANDRONICUS; and 
then TAMORA, with ALARBUS,
people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
Titus, unkind and careless of thine own,
Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet, To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
The tomb is opened
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars!
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
Sweet cell of virtue and nobility,
How many sons of mine hast thou in store,
May favor Tamora, the Queen of Goths--
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen--
To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes.
Re-enter 
LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS and 
MUTIUS, with their swords
bloody
Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserved
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart! Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days, And fame's eternal date, for virtue's praise!
Enter, below, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes; re-enter SATURNINUS and
BASSIANUS, attended